## 1. What is the difference between getElementById, getElementsByClassName, and querySelector / querySelectorAll?
All the methods are called using the document object. To begin with, getElementById returns the element with specific id passed into method. As id is an unique identifier, one id can be assigned to only one element, and thus, the method returns one element. On the other hand, getElementsByClassName method has an **s** after "Element" which means the method returns elements and that's because a class can be assigned to multiple elements. Lastly, querySelector/querySelectorAll methods are all rounders, we can pass any of CSS selectors to these methods to get back element(s). The only difference between them is that querySelector() returns the first match even if the selector is a class, and querySelectorAll() returns a collection of element(s) even if the selector is an id.
## 2. How do you create and insert a new element into the DOM?
To create a new element we use, **createElement()**. Inside the method we pass the elements wrapped in quotes (double or single) e.g. *"div"*, *"input"* etc. In addition, to insert the newly created element into the DOM, we pass the newly created element into the **appendChild()** method.
## 3. What is Event Bubbling and how does it work?
Event Bubbling is the process where a triggered event on a child element propagates upward the DOM tree and triggers all the events on the parent elements that are the same as the child's one. For instance, if we are at a building in dhaka, we can say we are at home, that means we are in dhaka, that also means we are in Bangladesh. In the same manner, event propagation triggers all the same event listeners that are on the outer elements for a specific inner element.
## 4. What is Event Delegation in JavaScript? Why is it useful?
Event Delegation in JS is the process where we add an event listener to the parent element to deal with all the child elements of the parent i.e. instead of attaching an event listener to all the child elements we can just add one to the parent and through the parent listen to events of the child elements. If we want particular elements of a specific section to behave in a particular way, event delegation is really helpful in this case. This helps to optimize the code and thus we get a smooth user experience.
## 5. What is the difference between preventDefault() and stopPropagation() methods?
**preventDefault()** is used to stop the default action of an event e.g. if a button in a form is clicked, the default action will cause a page reload or navigation to a specific route if action is mentioned in the form, and sometimes we need to validate the inputs of the form in the client side and that is when we prevent the default action and work with the inputs of the form.


On the other hand, **stopPropagation()** is used when we want to stop event bubbling. Sometimes we just want the inner elements to do things that are different from the parent element and at those times we need to stop the propagation of events.